## Case study - Milk and Money
#### Available at Kellogg School of Management

### Executive Summary
In this case we'll study how the dairy farmer Gerard van der Lann can overcome milk price fluctuation using put options in order to hedge his business. This will allow him to lock in a floor price without giving up upside price gains.\\
\\When using this strategy, the farmer should buy preferably Class III milk put options in the futures exchange - as this category is the one that most closely relates to the California mailbox price. It is possible to fit a linear regression model in which the Class III price can be predicted from the mailbox price with a 92.68\% accuracy - the highest among the 4 classes available. By doing that, Gerard will be able to lock in a floor price for his earnings with a relatively low risk.\\
\\The main concern of the farmer is to ensure a payoff when his mailbox falls below \$12.50 per cwt. For that price level, we can predict the Class III price to be between \$12.96 and \$13.48 with 90\% confidence, using the regression model mentioned above. If the farmer buys the option at a \$13.50 strike, there is roughly a 95\% chance that it will be in the money if the mailbox falls below \$12.50 - which guarantees his target floor price.\\
\\However, the premium paid for the option, along with trading fees, must also be taken into account for the net payoff. In that case, the actual strike price would have to be \$13.50 plus premium and fees. Besides, he also must have in mind that put options with a \$ 13.50 strike simply won't be affordable if the current commodity price is considerably below that level. \\